The Joe Rogan experience. You don't have any problem at all with porn,
you think porn is fine and porn is recreational.
A lot of people would push back against that.
And a lot of people would push back and they would say that it's damaging to
young women, that it objectifies women in a harmful way. And,
and that it changes the way young people in particularly look at sex and
that they mirror and model themselves after these very
unrealistic scenarios that are depicted in these, in these films.
What do you think about that?
Right. I didn't, I've never said that I have no issue with porn.
I would just say I'm not anti-porn and that,
I think that pornography has a time and place.
I think if you're an adult and in terms of sex more broadly,
whatever's consensual, that's your business. But I do think, yeah,
for especially young children, I don't think that's good for their development.
I don't think that that's a way that people should learn about what sex is going
to be like because that's pornography is not indicative of what real life sex
is.
And I think for people who are concerned that pornography is,
uh, that it say, uh, I mean,
there's so many different angles in terms of the criticisms of porn,
but say one common criticism is that pornography makes men interested in things
that are potentially degrading to women.
I do think there is some pornography that is not very nice in the way it depicts
women, for sure.
But I don't think viewing that as what makes men
misogynistic or disrespectful of their partners.
I think that's something that is inherent in them. And again,
as someone who has worked with sex offenders, you know,
[inaudible] is more predictive of someone's behavior and their views of women.
It's not about being exposed to porn because I think most pro-social men.
If they see something that's very degrading and awful to women,
they're going to say that's horrible. And I don't want to look at that.
Yeah.
I think the issue is not really with porn as much as the issue is with
human beings.
I think that porn is in a lot of ways,
like many things like, like alcohol, for instance,
you can have a drink every now and then,
or you can drink all day long and ruin your life. What is the problem?
Is the problem, the alcohol, or is it your behavior? Is it the human being?
I think it's a human being and human beings,
obsessive compulsive behavior,
and people's addiction to things the,
the addiction to pornography seems to be an issue. And so some people's ideas,
well, you should ban pornography. Well,
that's sort of the same argument for banning alcohol,
but it doesn't really work. Like you can't really tell people what to do.
If some people don't have a problem with it.
Like there's some people that enjoy porn every now and then they watch porn.
They'd rather than have a relationship or whatever.
Maybe they just don't want to deal with people, but they're horny.
I don't know what, what, for whatever reason,
but there's nothing wrong with that,
but there is something wrong for them with,
with the action of watching porn all day and
disassociating and being weird. But again, I don't think it's a porn problem.
I think it's a human problem. It's the same thing as gambling.
There's a lot of things that people get really obsessed with and they get
addicted to, I don't think the problem is the individual thing.
This has always been my take on porn or really on a lot of what we call
vices. I don't think the problem is the things themselves. And I,
I re not just respect,
I support individual choices.
I love the fact that we have freedom. You can do whatever you want.
I think you should be able to do anything you should,
as long as people aren't getting hurt by it.
I wonder why we have this perspective on
porn though, that we don't have on other things.
Cause like porn in many ways should be just people
having sex people and filming it. Right?
People obviously like sex.
So why is it such a big deal to film it?
Why is it such a big deal to show it to other people?
It's a very strange aspect of being a human being.
That is one thing that so many people are obsessed with and literally go out of
their way to be successful so they can get more sex. Like that is like,
if you ask men like how many, if men could not have sex,
how many men would be driving Ferrari's and, and,
and taking selfies in front of private jets. How about zero? Right?
If this is why they're doing it, they're,
they're signaling that they have wealth.
They're trying to make themselves attractive.
Why are they trying to do that for status? For what? Well,
maybe to show off to other men,
but more likely to show off to whoever they're attracted to whether it's the
opposite sex or the same sex they're trying to get sex.
So why is it that filming sex is so taboo?
Well, okay. To go back to your point about porn addiction, number one,
there's no evidence for pornography addiction in that.
You see some of my friends.
You don't know what you're talking about. The evidence.
I don't doubt that for some people, that porn is a problem. For sure.
And like you were saying, there's some people who watch for hours, you know,
and the research I was doing before,
there's some people I would talk to who literally sit and watch pornography
eight, 12 hours a day, and it's affecting work. They're up super late. You know,
they can't get up in the morning. It's affecting their relationships.
That is not, that's not healthy. That's definitely excessive.
I don't deny that that exists, but that's not, that's not addiction.
That's usually procrastination. It's procrastination. Oh.
Wow. That's a weird point of view. I think they're addicted to it.
They're obsessed with it. If you're obsessed with something,
don't you think that that's an addiction? I mean, are we splitting hairs here?
I guess it depends on what if you're meaning addiction as in like a colloquial
use of the word, maybe, but in terms of,
if you're about drug and alcohol addiction,
it's not because drug and alcohol addiction is characterized by tolerance and
withdrawal. So people who, people, some people will argue, like I said, with,
with pornography, that there,
if they watch it and they start watching more extreme versions of it,
they're saying that this is, you know, my tolerance,
but if you actually sit and have a conversation with those people, they'll say,
actually, this is what I've liked all along. It's just,
it took me a while to accept that. So it's not,
there's no tolerance and you don't see people having withdrawal when they stop.
Well, they might.
Physical withdraw, but they do get obsessed with it.
And they do have a compulsion to look at it. I know,
I know people that if they take, you know, a day from porn, they,
they think about it all the time and they can't wait to get alone to watch it.
I think it is an addiction. And I think it is similar to a drug addiction.
The same way gambling is similar to a drug addiction. There is an internal drug.
There's something that's going on in your mind that you are getting addicted to
the excitement, the endorphins that you get from gambling.
I think there's many people that get those same excitement and that same
excitement or a similar in endorphins from watching pornography and
masturbating.
Well, I mean, yeah, it is rewarding, but I think for a lot of people,
it's a coping strategy. And if you give them different coping strategies,
suddenly they're not reliant on pornography to feel better, to deal with stress.
It's not a strategy for getting over addiction. Like there are like,
you would admit there's an addiction to gambling.
I think it is recognized now I believe. But don't.
You think that,
that that's a similar situation because there is no withdrawal and there is the,
it's not like you reach a certain point where you,
you need more to get you off because I mean,
or I guess it is really right. Cause they gamble bigger and bigger numbers,
but you don't,
what I'm saying is you don't really develop a tolerance to gambling, right.
But it is a gambling addiction.
But the thing is with people with so-called pornography addiction,
if you in research has shown is if you give them other coping skills and ways to
deal with stress in their life,
or you teach them say they give them assertiveness training so that they are
able to speak up about what's bothering them instead of turning to pornography
as a way to feel better, it actually cuts down on how much they, their,
their viewing time and how much they.
Like. That's interesting.
And I want them to wonder if you get healthy user bias,
because if you're getting someone that is willing to admit and accept the fact
that they do have some sort of a sex or a pornography addiction,
that's not the average person. Like there's,
I think there's a lot of people out there that are addicted to porn,
but you never hear from them. Cause there's so much shame attached to it.
Right. But I think someone who is spending eight to 12 hours a day,
that's a lot of time that's pretty far in terms of severity.
So yeah, I'd like,
I don't think that for everyone who uses porn as a coping strategy is
necessarily going to be that extreme. But I just,
my issue is that this has been portrayed as something that is definitive
and that we should treat it like a, I think it was maybe two years ago,
everyone was talking about porn addiction and within the field,
people who work with people,
with problems with pornography in a therapeutic context will say, you know,
it's not an addiction,
it's there other things usually going on in someone's life.
And those are the things that you need to talk about when you sit down with a
therapist.
That's interesting. Um, yeah. I mean,
I guess I would agree that for a lot of people,
it probably is procrastination and there's probably a lot of other factors as
well, but then again, people get horny. So like,
even if you like find all these other coping mechanisms where you get horny,
you're probably gonna watch porn again.
So you'll slide right back into it. Well, I don't know.
I mean.
It's a weird thing as opposed to gambling, right?
Like you're not going to get horny for gambling, right.
There's not like an equivalent thing where you like, you, you,
you build up this thing inside your body, it needs to take a risk. Right.
But whereas with pornography, like it's particularly with men,
you do sort of build up this need to release.
Right. And then, then it becomes a question of,
can they integrate this back into their life in a healthy way without it
becoming destructive again? Yeah. Yeah.
Um, so why do you think it is that we have this,
this weird take on sex because it is,
it's a weird thing that it seems to be, there's no problem with sex,
but filming sex and showing sex is where things get strange.
Because sex is still considered stigmatized and it's taboo.
And even when you're a sex scientist, there's so much stigma around that.
You know, you would think that as a scientist,
that there would be some sort of removal of that perception, but no.
So I think, you know, I, I write a lot about sex positivity also.
I think if we were to decrease all the stigma around human sexuality,
that would help in so many ways.